# SPLConfig
SPLConfig is a tool to support the configuration of software product lines. 
SPLConfig is presented in the paper "SPLConfig: Product Configuration in Software Product Line" by Lucas Machado, Juliana Alves Pereira, Lucas Garcia, and Eduardo Figueiredo at the Brazilian Congress on Software: Theory and Practice (CBSoft), Tools Session, 2014.
Additionaly, we performed several experiments in the paper "Heuristic and Exact Algorithms for Product Configuration in Software Product Lines" by Juliana Alves Pereira, Lucas Maciel, Thiago F. Noronha, and Eduardo Figueiredo published at the International Transactions in Operational Research (ITOR), 24(6):1285–1306, Wiley Online Library, May 2017.
In this repository, we describe how to reproduce the results of the paper.

- SPLConfig demo video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QLHtIY8oHT8

# Experiments
SPLConfig implements a Greedy heuristic and a Backtracking algorithm. As input for this algorithms, we need a variability model and the non-functional properties for the subject system being considered.

- Variability model in a .xml-file generated by FeatureIDE
- .cli-file with the budget limit and the benefit of each feature in a scale from 0 (none) to 5 (very high)
- company.txt file with the price of each feature

## Variability models
We used two sets of feature models in our experiments: 10 state-of-the-art feature models and 12 randomly generated feature models. In this repository, you can download the .xml, .cli, and the company.txt files for these feature models.

- 10 state-of-the-art feature models (see data into the path literature-instances):
  - Mobile Media
  - Email System
  - Smart Home
  - Devolution
  - Gasparc
  - FraSCAti
  - Model Transformation
  - Battle of Tanks
  - Web Portal
  - e-Shop

- 12 randomly generated feature models (see data into the path random-instances)
  - These feature models were generated by using FeatureIDE: https://featureide.github.io/ 
  
## Backtracking algorithm
Apart from FeatureIDE that implements the Greedy heuristic, we used the Backtracking algorithm (see solver_unlimited_features.cpp). As input to this algorithm, we use a .in-file generated from a Python script (see parser.py). The .in-file is simple another representation of the variability model.

- How to use?

  - to convert the .xml to .in
  > python parser.py model.xml > teste.in
  - to run the backtracking algorithm
  > g++ -O2 solver_ulimited_features.cpp -o solver
  > ./solver -i teste.in -m company.txt -c teste.cli -o teste.out -t ?
  where ? is the time the backtracking will run in seconds. The flag -t is optional.
  - In the end, you can find the results in teste.out.
